# Heap and it's identification

We can represent heap with a stack.

## Identification of Heap Question
We can loop for two keywords.
We are given K, and we are given smallest or largest. 
If these two appears, it is possible that the question uses heap.

## Which heap to choose
Heap can be minimum or maximum heap.

If we are given
K + smallest -> We create Max heap
K + largest -> Minimum heap

We are doing vice versa here.
Why are we doing this?

E.g.
Kth largest element 
Heap size is supposed to be K.
And we will create Min heap.

For this, we remove all the elements above K size,
and using this we get the top element as our answer.

Heap will have top() and pop() functions as well.
Using this, we can get the smallest or largest element.

## Why are we given K?
Usually heap questions are sorting questions.

When K is given, we create a heap of size K.
And this complexity becomes of size nlogK.

## Working
Let's say we need to find the Kth smallest element.

Let's say we are given an array:
[7, 10, 4, 3, 20, 15]
And k = 3.
We need to find 3rd smallest element.

Now, since we are given K and we need to find smallest element, 
we find that we need heap to solve this question.

To find kth smallest element, we need to create a max heap.

Brute force solution will be first to sort the array, and then get the 3rd element.
But since we are given K,
we don't actually need to sort the whole array.

[7, 10, 4, 3, 20, 15]
Let's say we create a max heap array.

And our size of heap is K.
Now, we have max heap and we but 7.
7
10 7
10 7 4
10 7 4 3 -> as soon as size becomes greater than K, we can pop the first element.
10 can never be in our answer.
7 4 3
for 20
20 7 4 3 -> We can again pop 20

heap: 7 4 3
For 15
15 7 4 3 -> need to pop

Heap -> 7 4 3.
heap.top() -> 7 is our answer.

We solve this by keeping our size of heap as 3 (k) constant.

## Code
Unless asked for implementation, we don't actually need to implement the heap.

For CPP, we will make use of STL

### Max heap
```cpp
// for max heap
priority_queue<int> maxHeap; 
```

### Min H
```cpp
// for min heap
priority_queue<int, vector<int>, greater<int>> minHeap;
```

## Pair of heap
For example, we sometimes we need to put pair of int insize priority queue.
So instead of <int>, we will have to use pair<int,int> instead of int.

Instead of this, we can just use type.
```cpp
type def pair<int, pair<int,int>> ppi;
```
So now, instead of whole `pair<int, pair<int,int>>` we can just write `ppi`.

