# Recursion 

Flow:
1. Make Input smaller? But why?
2. Recursion - decision space
3. Recursive tree - soul of recursion
4. 2 steps to solve any recursion problem.

## Make Input smaller? But why?
After making a decision, out input becomes smaller automatically.

## Recursion - decision space
Coice + decision

Once create our decision tree, we are usually done with our question.

Example: Subset Problem
Print all subsets of a string

Whenver there is choice and decisions, it is always a recursion problem
It is better to foucs on choices and decisions that we are making than on making the input smaller.

## Recursive Tree
Input Output Method

Output Input
We initilize output as null.
As out input gets smaller, out output should slowly increase as well.

Example
Input: "abc"
Output: ""

Now we have a choice, either we take a, or we don't.
same goes for b and c.

in a recursion tree, branches are the number of choices.

We start at the top
Input : abc Output: ""

if we make decision for a (take it or not)

Second row of tree will be:
"bc"-""    "bc"-"a"

Third row of tree:
"c"-""  "c"-"b" "c"-"a" "c"-"ab"

Fourth row will be:
""-"" ""-"c" ""-"b" ""-"bc" ""-"a" ""-"ac"  ""-"ab" ""-"abc"

So, out output will be:
"", "c", "b", "bc", "a", "ac", "ab", "abc"
which is the required output.


## 2 Steps to solve any recursive problem
1. Design a recursive tree
2. fuck the problem (write the code)


## Recursion is everywhere
Tree datastructure is recursion.
Graphs is recursion.
array and string questions too have recursion.

Dynamic Programming, Backtracking and Divide and Conquer are parts of recursion.

## Problems to Do using base recursion
Input - Output Method
1. Print 1 to n or from n to 1 using recursion
2. Sort an array / Sort a stack
3. Delete middle element in a stack.
4. Remove duplicates from a string
5. Count the number of occurances
6. Subset of a string/array
7. Permutations with spaces (variations)
    with case change and many more.
8. Josephus Problem

Extended Input Output Method [hard problems]
1. Binary String with number of 1s greater than number of 0s
2. Generate Balanced Parenthesis

