# Approaching any coding question

## Read instructions

## Time management
Based on the time given, we need to look at the problems and their weitage.

Usually we have easy, medium and hard.
So, give time according to thier difficulty.

We should go with easy, and then medium and then hard.
We should first atleast qualify.

Time management on basis of score is very important.

## Solving Question
Problem Statement
Given a problem statement, they might give explanation or not.

The question should also have some Constraints provided.

Then we also have test custom input, compile and run and submit.

### Problem Statement
Read the problem statement properly.
Understand what the question wants before solving the question.

one might be simple problem statement.
They simply ask us to do stuff.
You know what to do.

One question might be given in a form of story.
This is just a wrapper to a simple problem statement.
We need to read the question throughly to understand what the question wants us to do.

### Input Output Explanation
Explanation might be optional.

We usually just have to write the function.
We usually don't have to read the inputs provided in the function.
Read input/output if question asks us to read too.

When reading input, beware how the input is being provided to us.

### Constraints
Constraints and their significance.

looking at the constraints, 
we usually determine if we acutally need O(n^2), O(n) or O(logn) solution.

Usually constraints are provided like this:
1 < N < 10^8
1 < arr[i] < 10^9

Since N is size of array, max size of array can be 10^8
the second constraints say that we will have positive numbers, and the 
datatype to be used to int.

if max value of arr[i] is 10^12, 12 need to use long.

Why are constraints given?
Our code can either run slow or fast.
faster code is always better. We always need an optimized method.

Depending on the time limit, we should be able to run all our of test cases.
if it exceeds, we get TIME LIMIT EXCEEDED.

Time limit is usually 2 * 10^8 Operations Per Second.
Our time complexity should not exceed this value.

Number of operations in our code
: loops are usually the bottlenecks of our code.

And these loops are usually the size of array provided in our constraints.

If 
10^18 -> We need O(logN) solution
10^ 8 -> We need O(N) solution
10^7 -> O(N) solution
10^6 -> We need O(Nlogn) solution
10^4 -> We can have O(N^2) solution
500 -> O(N^3) 
80-90 -> O(N^4)
20 -> O(2^N) (usually recursion)
11 -> O(N!) can be backtracking

### Dubugging
Plan of action if something goes wrong in our code.

Don't just read code when debugging without taking any action plan.

1. Check code output using custom input
Custom Input + Rerun the logic.

2. Print Statement
print values which we know should be coming

We can do these things to narrow down which part of our code might have a bug.

3. Stub inputs
You can also give custom inputs to the local function written.
Usually store the outputs that we are getting in the middle of our code.
We can then provide these temporary outputs to our code further when required.

Using stub inputs, we can also narrow down which function is having issue in our code.
Stub inputs - we don't run the functino, we just comment this function and provide the 
value to function further.


4. Comment part of our codes
What if these is segmentation fault?

When we comment specific parts of our code, and we rerun the code.
Using this, we can find which part of our code is giving segmentation fault.

