# Identification

Flow:
- Choices + decision
- All combinations
- Controlled recursion
- Number of choices
- Size of the constraints
- Don't be greedy

If these things are present, there is a chance that the problem might require backtracking.

1. Choices + decisions
This comes from recursion itself. Backtracking question will always have it.

2. All combinations
Whenever all combinations are asked, it is possible that question is based on backtracking.

3. Controlled recursion
Make use of prior knowledge to get rid of redundant paths.

4. Number of choices
Usually in backtracking question, we have a lot of choices. Sometimes, we are not even sure of the number of choices that we have.

5. Size of constraints
Usually very important.
Backtraing questions are usually exponential. 
And constraints are usually like `1 < n < 10`.
This is a very big hint that question might require backtraing as it has exponential complexity.

6. Don't be greedy
Sometimes, we can be asked a single solution, or an optimal solution.

e.g. largest number in k swaps.
1234567
k = 4, let us swap them and get the largest number.
Using a greedy solution might get us into trouble here.
as greddy solution will give us
7654321.
 e.g.2 4577, k=2
With greedy, the solution will be 7745 in 2 swaps.
and it can also be 7754 with 2 swaps. 
Here, we can see normal greedy approach does not work.

When there are duplicate numbers, greedy approach won't work. We will have to use backtracking.

Try to think a counter example where our greedy approach will fail. And try to look at the constraints as well. These two will give us a good idea what the question is expecting from us.


